Initial pipelines docs (#18595)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: src/content/docs/pipelines/tutorials/query-data-with-motherduck/index.mdx

---
updated: 2025-02-24
difficulty: Intermediate
content_type: 📝 Tutorial
pcx_content_type: tutorial
title: Ingest data from a Worker, and analyze using MotherDuck
products:
  - R2
  - Workers
tags:
  - MotherDuck
languages:
  - SQL
---

import { Render, PackageManagers, Details, WranglerConfig } from "~/components";

> In this tutorial, you will learn how to ingest clickstream data from your website, using Pipelines. We'll also use Pipelines to load this data into an [R2 bucket](/r2/). You will also learn how to connect the bucket to MotherDuck. You will then query the data using MotherDuck.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you will learn how to ingest clickstream data from your website using Pipelines. You will also use Pipelines to load this data into an [R2 bucket](/r2/) and learn how to connect the bucket to MotherDuck. You will then query the data using MotherDuck.
```

For this tutorial, you will build a landing page of an e-commerce website. A user can click on the view button to view the product details or click on the add to cart button to add the product to their cart.

> We will use a pipeline to ingest these click events, and load into an R2 bucket. We'll then use MotherDuck to query the events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will use a pipeline to ingest these click events and load them into an R2 bucket. You will then use MotherDuck to query the events.
```

    				productElement.classList.add('rounded-lg', 'border', 'bg-card', 'text-card-foreground', 'shadow-sm');
    				productElement.innerHTML = `
            <div class="flex flex-col space-y-1.5 p-6">
              <h2 class="text-2xl font-semibold leading-none tracking-tight">${product.name}</h2>
            </div>
            <div class="p-6 pt-0">
              <p>${product.desc}</p>
              <p class="font-bold mt-2">$${product.cost}</p>
            </div>
            <div class="flex items-center p-6 pt-0 flex justify-between">
              <button class="border px-4 py-2 rounded-md" onclick="handleClick('product_view', ${product.id})" name="">View Details</button>
              <button class="border px-4 py-2 rounded-md" onclick="handleClick('add_to_cart', ${product.id})">Add to Cart</button>
            </div>
          `;
    				productContainer.appendChild(productElement);
    			});
    		}
    		renderProducts();

    		// function to handle click events
    		async function handleClick(action, id) {
    			console.log(`Clicked ${action} for product with id ${id}`);
    		}
    	</script>
    </body>

</html>

```
</details>

> The above code does the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above code:
```

```js title="public/index.html" ins={3-40}
async function handleClick(action, id) {
	console.log(`Clicked ${action} for product with id ${id}`);

	const userAgent = window.navigator.userAgent;
	const timestamp = new Date().toISOString();
	const { browser, os, device } = extractDeviceInfo(userAgent);

	const data = {
		timestamp,
		session_id: "1234567890abcdef", // For production use a unique session ID
		user_id: "user" + Math.floor(Math.random() * 1000), // For production use a unique user ID
		event_data: {
			event_id: Math.floor(Math.random() * 1000),
			event_type: action,
			page_url: window.location.href,
			timestamp,
			product_id: id,
		},
		device_info: {
			browser,
			os,
			device,
			userAgent,
		},
		referrer: document.referrer,
	};
	try {
		const response = await fetch("/api/clickstream", {
			method: "POST",
			headers: {
				"Content-Type": "application/json",
			},
			body: JSON.stringify({ data }),
		});
		if (!response.ok) {
			throw new Error("Failed to send data to pipeline");
		}
	} catch (error) {
		console.error("Error sending data to pipeline:", error);
	}
}
```

> The `handleClick` function does the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `handleClick` function:
```

- Gets the device information using the `extractDeviceInfo` function.
- Creates a `POST` request to the `/api/clickstream` endpoint with the data.
- Logs any errors that occur.

## 4. Create an R2 bucket

> We'll create a new R2 bucket to use as the sink for our pipeline. Create a new r2 bucket `clickstream-data` using the [Wrangler CLI](/workers/wrangler/):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will create a new R2 bucket to use as the sink for our pipeline. Create a new r2 bucket `clickstream-data` using the [Wrangler CLI](/workers/wrangler/):
```

```sh
npx wrangler r2 bucket create clickstream-data
```

## 5. Create a pipeline
You need to create a new pipeline and connect it to the R2 bucket we created in the previous step.

Create a new pipeline `clickstream-pipeline` using the [Wrangler CLI](/workers/wrangler/):

```sh
npx wrangler pipelines create clickstream-pipeline --r2-bucket clickstream-data
```

When you run the command, you will be prompted to authorize Cloudflare Workers Pipelines to create R2 API tokens on your behalf. These tokens are required by your Pipeline. Your Pipeline uses these tokens when loading data into your bucket. You can approve the request through the browser link which will open automatically.

```output
🌀 Authorizing R2 bucket clickstream-data
🌀 Creating pipeline named "clickstream-pipeline"
✅ Successfully created pipeline "clickstream-pipeline" with id <PIPELINES_ID>
```

## 5. Send clickstream data to your pipeline

> We've setup the frontend of our application to make a call to the `/api/clickstream` route, everytime the user clicks on one of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You have setup the frontend of your application to make a call to the `/api/clickstream` route every time the user clicks on one of the
```

Reviewer: This sentence is incomplete by the way.

You will use the pipelines binding to send the clickstream data to your pipeline. In your `wrangler` file, add the following bindings:

<WranglerConfig>

```toml
[[pipelines]]
binding = "MY_PIPELINE"
pipeline = "clickstream-pipeline"
```

</WranglerConfig>

Next, update the type in the `worker-configuration.d.ts` file. Add the following type:

```ts title="worker-configuration.d.ts"
interface Env {
	MY_PIPELINE: Pipeline;
}
```

Update the `src/index.ts` file to handle the `POST` request:

```ts title="src/index.ts"
export default {
	async fetch(request, env, ctx): Promise<Response> {
		const pathname = new URL(request.url).pathname;
		const method = request.method;
		if (pathname === "/api/clickstream" && method === "POST") {
			const body = (await request.json()) as { data: any };
			try {
				await env.MY_PIPELINE.send([body.data]);
				return new Response("OK", { status: 200 });
			} catch (error) {
				console.error(error);
				return new Response("Internal Server Error", { status: 500 });
			}
		}
		return new Response("Hello World!");
	},
} satisfies ExportedHandler<Env>;
```

> The `src/index.ts` file does the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `src/index.ts` file:
```

- Checks if the request is a `POST` request to the `/api/clickstream` endpoint.
- Extracts the data from the request body.
- Sends the data to your Pipeline.
- Returns a response to the client.

## 6. Deploy the application

You can run the local server to the test the application. However, the data will be not be sent to the production pipeline. You will need to deploy the application to send the data to the pipeline.

> To start the development server execute the below command and naviagte to `http://localhost:8787`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To start the development server execute the below command and navigate to `http://localhost:8787`:
```

2. Navigate to the **Secrets** page.
3. Select the **Add Secret** button and enter the following information:

   - **Secret Name**: `Clickstream pipeline`
   - **Secret Type**: `Cloudflare R2`
   - **Access Key ID**: `ACCESS_KEY_ID` (replace with the Access Key ID)
   - **Secret Access Key**: `SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` (replace with the Secret Access Key)

4. Select the **Add Secret** button to save the secret.

## 8. Query the data

In this step, you will query the data stored in the R2 bucket using MotherDuck.

1. Navigate back to the MotherDuck dashboard and select the **+** icon to add a new Notebook.
2. Select the **Add Cell** button to add a new cell to the notebook.

3. In the cell, enter the following query and select the **Run** button to execute the query:

```sql
SELECT * FROM read_json_auto('r2://<BUCKET_NAME>/**/*');
```

Replace the `<BUCKET_NAME>` placeholder with the name of the R2 bucket.

The query will return the data stored in the R2 bucket.

## Conclusion

You have successfully built an e-commerce application that leverages Cloudflare's Pipelines, R2, and Workers. Through this tutorial, you've gained hands-on experience in:

> 1. Creating a Workers project with a static frontend

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Creating a Workers project with a static frontend.
```

> 2. Generating and capturing clickstream data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Generating and capturing clickstream data.
```

> 3. Setting up a Cloudflare Pipelines to ingest data into R2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Setting up a Cloudflare Pipelines to ingest data into R2
```
```suggestion
- Setting up a Cloudflare Pipelines to ingest data into R2.
```

> 4. Connecting your R2 bucket to MotherDuck for advanced querying capabilities

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Connecting your R2 bucket to MotherDuck for advanced querying capabilities.
```
